To push your image to dockerhub, first go to dockerhub and login. Then click on create repository . The namespace will be your username and then it will be followed by the repository name. First we build an image of our project with same nae as repo created
        docker build -t namespace/repo_name:v1-dev .
Try running it using docker run namespace/repo_name:v1-dev 
Note: v1-dev is the tag_name. If you dont give tag_name, by default it will be latest. Thus we will have diff versions of the image(check docker images). You can give any tag_name

For eg if you do docker run mongo:4.4.29, it will pull 4.4.29 version of mongo

Then do 
  	docker login   and enter your usename and password. 
If you are signing up via google, go to the security section in your account and create a new access token and then we can use it as password.

Now do
	docker push namespace/repo_name:v1-dev	

If another person wants to pull this repo, they should do docker run -p 3000:3000  namespace/repo_name:v1-dev
If you dont give v1-dev , it will automatically search for latest version

Docker Compose:
Docker Compose is a tool designed to help you define and run multi-container Docker applications. With Compose, you use a YAML file to configure your application's services, networks, and volumes. Then, with a single command, you can create and start all the services from your configuration.(eg now if i have to communicate between two containers and create a volume and for port mapping etc i have to have seperate commands. what if i could do all this in single command).

In docker-compose.yaml, services are your containers
depends_on section indicated that that service will begin only if the service mentioned in depends_on section begins. To know more about docker-compose.yaml, go to week2.2 folder

Bind mounts:
Suppose i want to connect a local file to docker. For eg. suppose you have created a nextjs application and made a container of it. Now if you run the container and you make changes in the nextjs folder it will not be shown in the container as it does not hot reload. For this we use bind mounts. We have to mount our local folder to a folder inside the container.
Suppose /nextapp is the working directory defined in the container(in the docker file)

I can do 	docker -p 3000:3000  -v ./app:/nextapp/app  nextapp

This will bind mount ./app in our local machine directory and app directory in nextapp directory in the container
